This file describes the ground truth set described and used in:

Multilingual Sentiment Analysis on Social Media
E. Tromp

This folder contains social media messages on either of eight
entities. The entity the messages are on is given in the
name of the file. The files themselves are comma separated
value files where the first entry is the message and the
second entry is the class it belongs to.

To denote the class, the following scheme was used.
+	Positive
-	Negative
=	Objective

The following description is taken from the thesis.

3.2.2 Ground Truth Set
The open eld data set described in Section 3.2.1, resulting from the traditional survey's data, is to be aligned
against similar data from resulting from social media to achieve Goal 4. This similar data is our ground
truth set. Our ground truth set is taken from our crawled data. As our survey asks for opinions on dierent
entities, we specifically only include social media messages on those entities in our ground truth set to make
a fair alignment.

We use sixteen entities in total in our traditional survey. Our crawled data contains tens of thousands of
messages on these entities. As we need to manually label all messages to indeed obtain a ground truth,
labeling all messages is too tedious. We therefore use exactly 44 messages for eight entities; FC Barcelona,
Manchester United, Playstation 3, Wii, Esprit, Nike, Job Cohen, Geert Wilders. We thus use two entities
per domain. The choice for the specific entities and the choice of using exactly 44 messages have no rationale.

As our survey was held among Dutch citizens, each of the messages present in our ground truth set is also
in Dutch. We label each of these messages to be either positive, negative or objective. Note that the only
information we have for each of these messages is the message itself as the message may originate from any
of the social media we crawl. We can thus not segment on for example age as for Twitter and Facebook we
do not have age information.