This file describes the survey data described and used in:

Multilingual Sentiment Analysis on Social Media
E. Tromp

The sample 1 and sample 2 folders contain the sample 1 and sample 2
samples described in the thesis. These samples are labeled open field
responses taken from the survey data.

The actual survey data is in the responses.csv file. The first row
contains headers. Each other row is a single response of a single
respondent. A respondent can rate each entity on scale from
1 (very good) to 5 (very bad) or indicate not having any opinion
on the entity, which is denoted by a value of 6. For each respondent
we additionally have the gender ('Geslacht' - 1 being male, 2 being
female) and the age ('Leeftijd') at the time of filling out the
survey.

The following description is taken from the thesis.

3.2.1 Survey Data & Crawled Data
Goal 4 already mentions mapping to a traditional survey. This inherently requires us to create such a survey.
This is the survey data shown in Figure 6. We cannot align such a traditional survey against any randomly
chosen data, the alignment needs to be as unbiased as possible. We therefore require a dataset on the same
domain the traditional survey is, collected in the same timespan. This dataset is the crawled data shown in
Figure 6. The models of our sentiment analysis are trained as per Table 4.

The survey data is obtained by surveying a representative sample of Dutch society, as defined by the CBS8.
The survey { created by Multiscope for this study { that was lled in by respondents is presented in Appendix
D. Respondents are asked to rate sixteen dierent entities which are grouped together in four dierent
domains as per Table 7. The rating of such an entity is on a scale from 1 (very good) to 5 (very bad). Additionally,
the respondent can mark having no opinion on the entity in which case we leave this respondent's
entry out for that particular entity. Before any entities are marked, the respondent is asked what social media
(any of Hyves, Twitter, Facebook) he or she uses, allowing us to create a mapping per social medium. The
survey data results directly from the respondents' answers to these questions. We additionally know each
respondent's age, allowing for a segment-based alignment.

If we want to align the results of the survey with those of our sentiment analysis, we need to be sure that the
results are based on similar data. To this end, we crawl all social media specifically for the entities presented
in Table 7 by querying the social media for all messages containing one of our entities. It may occur that a
message is about one of our entities but because of for example a misspelling we cannot nd it by querying
the social media for it. To still obtain these messages, we additionally collect all messages that is publicly
available on all social media. As the survey was set out for a period of three days and since the crawling took
place in parallel, crawling also stopped after three days. A part of this data is used to create the validation
set described in Section 3.2.4 as shown in Figure 6. The remainder of the crawled data is completely classified
by our four-step process and is used to create a mapping onto the survey's data, resulting in the crawled
data shown in Figure 6.

Since the survey is only answered by Dutch citizens, we disregard all messages not written in Dutch as
classiffied by our language identification algorithm. Note that in addition to just collecting messages, we also
collect age information in case of the Hyves social network. Using the age feature, we can thus perform a
more ne-grained analysis.

We will use the open eld data of the traditional survey as a ground truth. In order to use these open
fields as a ground truth, we need to manually inspect the data and determine for each open eld answer
whether it contains an opinion and if so, whether it is positive or negative. The survey contains responses
of a representative sample of Dutch citizens of 1429 respondents. Out of these 1429 responses, exactly 919
filled in at least one of the open elds on at least one of the sixteen entities presented in Table 7.

Manually inspecting all of the open eld responses is not possible within a reasonable timespan. We therefore
only select a sample of those 919 respondents. Since the complete survey has been lled in by a representative
sample however, we will use its distribution in age to create our sample out of the 919 respondents that we
will manually inspect and assign either one of objective, positive, negative to each open eld response. As
not all of the 919 respondents who gave their opinion in at least one open eld lled in all of the open
fields, we will construct a representative sample for each entity separately to make sure that our sample is
representative per entity. Note that this means we do not have a representative sample with respect to the
number of opinions given but as this is not what we want to investigate, this is not a problem. We create
two datasets from the open eld responses.

The complete distribution of the number of respondents that filled in an open field belonging to an entity is
shown in Table 5. For each entity we select exactly 60 open field answers given by respondents sampled to be
representative for Dutch society, following the distribution shown in Figure 16(a). We use only 60 open eld
responses per entity { resulting in a total of 960 responses as we have 16 dierent entities { as we need to
manually label each response which is a tedious task. This results in using the number of responses per age
group as shown in Table 6 for each entity. To obtain the amount of responses shown in Table 6, we uniformly
sample from each age group per entity, taking our legitimacy constraint into account. This gives us a sample
dataset that is still representative for Dutch society.

We have already pointed out that on Hyves, only the [18, 29] age group is properly represented. To this
end, it makes sense to perform a segment-based analysis mainly focusing on this age group. The number of
open eld responses per entity for this age group are much too low in our representative sample though. We
thus create an additional ground truth sample using the same methodology consisting of only 50 open eld
responses per entity in the [18, 29] age group and no open eld responses for the other age groups. We use
the number 50 since there is one entity (Uri Rosenthal) that has only 57 responses which we round down to
the multiples of ten. We thus have the following two ground truth samples.

Sample 1. Representative sample containing for each age group the number of open eld responses shown
	in Table 6 to be representative for Dutch society.
Sample 2. Low-age group sample containing exactly 50 open eld responses per entity only for the [18, 29]
	age group, and nothing else.

The labeling of each of the open eld responses is done in a stand-alone manner. This means that whenever
an entity is rated positively or negatively but its corresponding open eld response is neutral when not looking
at the rating, we label the message as being neutral. We do this since it can only be determined positive or
negative if we use rating information which we want to avoid as we then again not only use natural language.
We moreover only use an open eld answer if it contains legitimate text that stands on its own (i.e. an open
field answer such as { or idem is not used).

Once we have our labeled open eld data, we know for each natural language response whether it is positive,
negative or objective. As this labeling was performed manually combined with the fact that the samples are
representative for Dutch society, we regard it as a ground truth labeling upon which we can evaluate our
sentiment analysis process. Since we now have the same labels for our traditional survey as we have for our
sentiment analysis, the mapping problems identified in Section 3.4.1 are no longer present.

Table 5 - The number of open eld responses per entity if the entity was actually rated.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Entity			Responses		Entity		Responses
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Manchester United	376			Playstation 3	223
FC Barcelona		392			Wii		381
AC Milan		365			Xbox		209
Sloggi			504			Wilders		622
Bjorn Borg		433			Rosenthal	449
Nike			486			Cohen		570
Mexx			416			Rutte		574
Esprit			454			Sap		509
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table 6 - The number responses per age group.
-------------------------
Age Group	Responses
-------------------------
[18; 29]	12
[30; 39]	10
[40; 49]	11
[50; 59]	13
[60; 84]	15
-------------------------

Table 7 - The entities a respondent is asked to give an opinion on in the survey.
--------------------------------------------------------
Domain			Entity
--------------------------------------------------------
Soccer			Manchester United, Fc Barcelona
			AC Milan
Game consoles		Nintendo Wii, Sony Playstation 3
			Microsoft Xbox 360
(Clothing) Brands	Nike, Mexx
			Sloggi, Bjorn Borg
			Esprit
(Dutch) Politicians	Geert Wilders, Mark Rutte
			Job Cohen, Uri Rosenthal
			Jolande Sap
--------------------------------------------------------